Q Gandalf, Radagast, and Saruman. What are the names of the remaining two wizards of Middle Earth?
A Alatar and Pallando
Q What was the name of the battering ram used in the siege of Minas Tirith?
A Grond
Q In the movie "The Return of the King", what does Gimli say after Legolas kills the Mumakil?
A That still only counts as one.
Q In the movie "The Return of the King", who plays the pirate that gets shot by Legolas?
A Peter Jackson
Q How is Arwen is related to Galadriel?
A Arwen is Galadriel's granddaughter
Q Which book did Tolkien want to give a different title to because it's name "Gave away the end?"
A The Return of the King
Q In the books, how long passes between Bilbo's Birthday Party and Frodo leaving the shire?
A 17 years
Q How old is Frodo when he leaves the Shire?
A 50 years old
Q The screech of the Nazgul in the Peter Jackson LOTR films was made by combining sounds from a pig, a horse, and who?
A Fran Jackson, the director's wife. She had a sore throat at the time.
Q The voice of Treebeard was done by the actor playing what other role in the Peter Jackson LOTR films?
A Gimli (John Rhys-Davies)
Q Which members of the Fellowship are the sons of kings?
A Aragorn/Strider (son of Arathorn II) and Legolas (son of Thranduil, king of the Wood Elves)
Q Gimli offers his axe in service to Frodo. Whose axe was it before that?
A Gloin, his father's.
Q Whose grave does the Fellowship find in Moria, which disturbs Gimli terribly?
A Balin
Q What races can play as a Rune-Keeper?
A Dwarf and Elf
Q What was Gandalf's earliest name?
A Olórin. Later, Tharkun and Mithrandir.
Q What type of blade is Frodo stabbed with during the fight on Weathertop?
A Morgul
Q What name was Aragorn travelling under?
A Strider
Q What does "Uruk Hai" mean?
A Orc Folk
Q What is Boromir's brother named?
A Faramir
Q What river was the ring of power lost in, at the death of Isildur?
A Anduin
Q What is the name of Saruman's Tower?
A Orthanc
Q What did Bilbo give to the Elvenking in The Hobbit?
A Arkenstone
Q What ancient forge is rediscovered in The Way of the Smiths in Moria?
A The Heart of Fire
Q What is the great port city of Gondor?
A Pelargir
Q Who are the nemeses of The Ale Association?
A The Inn League
Q What do the initials J.R.R. stand for in J.R.R. Tolkien's name?
A John Ronald Reuel
Q By what name do the elves call Gandalf?
A Mithrandir
Q Finish this password: Speak _______ and Enter
A Friend
Q What actor protrayed Bilbo Baggins in the LOTR Trilogy, and aged Bilbo in The Hobbit Trilogy?
A Sir Ian Holm
Q Who was the nephew of King Theoden of Rohan?
A Éomer
Q In the LOTR Trilogy, the actor Sala Baker portrayed three major characters. Name any of them.
A Sauron, The Witch-King of Angmar, Lugdush the Uruk
Q The southern valley of The Misty Mountains, Nan Curunir, is home to what landmark?
A Isengard
Q This is the name of both a river and a bridge central to the plot in LOTR.
A Brandywine
Q What is the name of the landmark which spans the Brandywine at King's Crossing in Evendim?
A The Colossus
Q How many wizards were there in Middle Earth?
A 5
Q Who is the barman at the Prancing Pony Inn, in Bree?
A Barliman Butterbur
Q In LOTRO, the frost giant Núrzum is found in what region?
A Wildermore
Q What is the southern kingdom of Middle Earth called?
A Gondor
Q What kingdom of Middle Earth has a capital city named Edoras?
A Rohan
Q What relation is Frodo to Bilbo?
A First cousins, once removed (common ancestors: Gerontius Took and Adamanta Chubb) AND Second cousins once removed (common ancestors: Balbo Baggins and Berylla Boffin)
Q What is Wormtongue's given name?
A Grima
Q In LOTRO, maxing out what skill grants you the title "Lord/Lady of Streams"?
A Fishing
Q What class acquires the title "Mischief-Maker"?
A Burglar
Q What class acquires the title "Defender of Middle Earth"?
A Captain
Q What class acquires the title "Invincible"?
A Champion
Q What class acquires the title "Stalwart Protector"?
A Guardian
Q What class acquires the title "Earthborn"?
A Hunter
Q What class acquires the title "Ancient Master"?
A Lore Master
Q What class acquires the title "Healing Spirit"?
A Minstrel
Q What class acquires the title "Harbinger of Peace"?
A Rune-Keeper
Q What class acquires the title "Ward of Justice"?
A Warden
Q What region is Annúminas found in?
A Evendim
Q What is Durin's Bane better known as?
A The Balrog of Moria
Q Who is Gimli's father?
A Gloin
Q What is "...as hard as dragon scale and as light as a feather"?
A Mithril
Q Who was originally cast as Aragorn?
A Stuart Townsend
Q How many rings of power were made "for the Elven-kings under the sky"?
A Three
Q How many rings of power did "the Dwarf-lords in their halls of stone" receive?
A Seven
Q How many rings of power were given to "Mortal Men doomed to die"?
A Nine
Q Who forged the Rings of Power?
A  The elven-smiths of Eregion, guided by Celebrimbor.
Q What region is Oatbarton found in?
A The Shire
Q What capital city is built of flets?
A Caras Galadhon
Q In what region is The Haunted Inn located?
A Mirkwood
Q What does the name of the sword Anduril mean in Elvish?
A Flame of the West
Q What color arrow is used to dispatch Smaug?
A Black
Q What city does Galadriel live in?
A Caras Galadhon
Q Who is the husband of Galadriel?
A Lord Celeborn
Q Who is known as the Lord of the Waters?
A Ulmo
Q What elf led the Fellowship to Caras Galadhon, from the edge of Lothlorien?
A Haldir
Q What is Mount Doom's other name?
A Orodruin
Q In LOTRO, how do you replay an epic instance you've already played before?
A Use a Reflecting Pool
Q What is Saruman called in Elvish?
A Curunir
Q What are the two most common elvish dialects?
A Sindarin and Quenya
Q Who wielded the sword Orcrist?
A Thorin Oakenshield
Q Who is our server, Windfola, named after?
A The horse that carried Eowyn, disguised as a man, and Merry, to Pellenor Fields where Eowyn slew the Witch-King of Angmar.
Q What was the name of the hobbit Smeagol killed to steal the One Ring?
A Deagol
Q What wood type is found alongside Mallorn in Moria?
A Ilex
Q In skirmishes, what are the two types of usable items encounter foes drop, which do not leave the encounter with you?
A Tokens and Emblems
Q Name any of the three Elvish rings and their bearer.
A Narya (Gandalf), Vilya (Elrond), Nenya (Galadriel)
Q What race can a Guardian be?
A Any
Q How many children does Elrond have?
A Three (sons Elladan and Elrohir, daughter Arwen Undómiel)
Q What location in Middle Earth's name translates as "Black Chasm"?
A Moria
Q What is the name of the Lord of the Air who carried Gandalf?
A Gwaihir
Q How many times did the wind lord Gwaihir bear Gandalf?
A Three times; once to escape Isengard, once to escape the Sinvertine after battling the balrog of Moria, and once to rescue the hobbits from the slopes of Mount Doom.
Q What is the most significant feature of Barad-dûr?
A The Eye of Sauron atop it
Q What is the capital city of Men, in LOTRO?
A Bree
Q Who is Shelob the spawn of?
A Ungoliant
Q What was the name of the sword Anduril before it was broken and reforged?
A Narsil
Q What is Amon Sul commonly known as?
A Weathertop
Q What is the race of horses to which Shadowfax belongs called?
A The Meara
Q What is the word, in black speech, meaning "orc"?
A Uruk
Q In the 2001 movie The Fellowship of the Ring, the sound of a walrus bellowing was used as the sound of what foe?
A The Watcher in the Water
Q In the Foundations of Stone, what name is given to the fungally-corrupted lifeforms?
A Globsnaga
Q What is the name of Elrond's youngest child?
A Arwen
Q Where was the LOTR Trilogy filmed?
A New Zealand
Q Which actor recently portrayed Gandalf in the LOTR Trilogy and The Hobbit?
A Sir Ian McKellen
Q Which actor portrayed Bilbo Baggins in the recent Hobbit film?
A Martin Freeman
Q Sam Gamgee is sweet on which female hobbit?
A Rosie Cotton
Q Who was Aragorn's father?
A Arathorn II
Q What is the name of the guardians of the Shire?
A The Bounders
Q What class uses a balance between damaging and restorative magic known as Attunement?
A Rune-Keeper
Q Whose head was knocked off by Bandobras in the northern Shire, and the head flew 100 yards and fell down a rabbit hole?
A Golfimbul
Q Who is Brogur's nephew, a central dwarf strategist in Moria?
A Bosi
Q Who is thought lost, but found trapped, with the axe Zigilburk?
A Bróin
Q Which craft makes Burglar Tools?
A Tailor
Q Which craft makes Loremaster comapnion talismans?
A Jeweler
Q Frostbluff Theater is a central activity hub during what festival?
A Yuletide
Q The Party Tree in the Shire is a central activity hub during what three major festivals?
A Spring, Summer, Harvest
Q What class uses traps and snares?
A Hunter
Q What class is known for its musical prowess?
A Minstrel
Q What primary ore type comes between Khazad ores and Dwarf Iron?
A Ancient Iron
Q What jewelers' metal is mined as a Journeyman prospector?
A Silver
Q The race, called Atani in Quenya, is called what, in common tongue?
A Men
Q What is the main language of Men in LOTR called?
A Westron
Q Name either of Bilbo's parents.
A Bungo Baggins and Belladonna Took
Q What major, singing sylvan spirit was not included in the movies, but plays heavily in both the books and LOTRO?
A Tom Bombadil
Q This dwarf, who witnessed the fall of Thorin's grandfater Thror, has lost his mind and now resides in the mountains of Enedwaith.
A Nar
Q What is the capital of the Shire?
A Michel Delving
